# Exploring the manifold geometric properties
## Introduction
This directory provides the codes for analyzing the geometric properties of discrete manifold and exploring the variability of microbial interspecific interaction.

## Data preparation
The Global Water Microbiome Consortium GWMC dataset <sup>1</sup> is used as the reference dataset for the analysis of manifold geometric properties, and the daily time series of activated sludge microbiome from HK city <sup>2</sup> is use for the validation of our framework. The time series is provided as a demo.csv in ../Input. The GWMC dataset is not provided here to avoid copyright violadation according to http://gwmc.ou.edu/data-disclose.html. In this study, the raw sequences were download from  NCBI Sequence Read Archive with the accession number PRJNA509305. The reference dataset was obtain by analyzing these sequences via QIIME2. Detail could be found in the metahod and material section. For illustration, we have use the demo.csv as the reference dataset and rename it as reference_demo.csv.

## Analyze the manifold geometric properties via localluy weighted regression
After preparing the time series and reference dataset, you can calculate the partial slopes at a target state of the discrete manifold by running the following python codes
```
python ./Locally_Weighted_Regression/Function/Locally_Weighted_Regression_20220121_WOT1.py -I ../Input/demo.csv -R ../Input/reference_demo.csv -O ../Output/LWR_output_demo 
```R

## References
1.	Wu, L.; Ning, D.; Zhang, B.; Li, Y.; Zhang, P.; Shan, X.; Zhang, Q.; Brown, M. R.; Li, Z.; Van Nostrand, J. D.; Ling, F.; Xiao, N.; Zhang, Y.; Vierheilig, J.; Wells, G. F.; Yang, Y.; Deng, Y.; Tu, Q.; Wang, A.; Acevedo, D.; Agullo-Barcelo, M.; Alvarez, P. J. J.; Alvarez-Cohen, L.; Andersen, G. L.; de Araujo, J. C.; Boehnke, K. F.; Bond, P.; Bott, C. B.; Bovio, P.; Brewster, R. K.; Bux, F.; Cabezas, A.; Cabrol, L.; Chen, S.; Criddle, C. S.; Etchebehere, C.; Ford, A.; Frigon, D.; Sanabria, J.; Griffin, J. S.; Gu, A. Z.; Habagil, M.; Hale, L.; Hardeman, S. D.; Harmon, M.; Horn, H.; Hu, Z.; Jauffur, S.; Johnson, D. R.; Keller, J.; Keucken, A.; Kumari, S.; Leal, C. D.; Lebrun, L. A.; Lee, J.; Lee, M.; Lee, Z. M. P.; Li, M.; Li, X.; Liu, Y.; Luthy, R. G.; Mendonça-Hagler, L. C.; de Menezes, F. G. R.; Meyers, A. J.; Mohebbi, A.; Nielsen, P. H.; Oehmen, A.; Palmer, A.; Parameswaran, P.; Park, J.; Patsch, D.; Reginatto, V.; de los Reyes, F. L.; Rittmann, B. E.; Noyola, A.; Rossetti, S.; Sidhu, J.; Sloan, W. T.; Smith, K.; de Sousa, O. V.; Stahl, D. A.; Stephens, K.; Tian, R.; Tiedje, J. M.; Tooker, N. B.; De los Cobos Vasconcelos, D.; Wagner, M.; Wakelin, S.; Wang, B.; Weaver, J. E.; West, S.; Wilmes, P.; Woo, S.-G.; Wu, J.-H.; Wu, L.; Xi, C.; Xu, M.; Yan, T.; Yang, M.; Young, M.; Yue, H.; Zhang, T.; Zhang, Q.; Zhang, W.; Zhang, Y.; Zhou, H.; Zhou, J.; Wen, X.; Curtis, T. P.; He, Q.; He, Z.; Global Water Microbiome, C., Global diversity and biogeography of bacterial communities in wastewater treatment plants. Nature Microbiology 2019, 4, (7), 1183-1195.
2.	Jiang, X.-T.; Ye, L.; Ju, F.; Wang, Y.-L.; Zhang, T., Toward an Intensive Longitudinal Understanding of Activated Sludge Bacterial Assembly and Dynamics. Environmental Science & Technology 2018, 52, (15), 8224-8232.
